Multiple-Choice Questions:
Identity
Levels of identity
Causes and consequences of group identification
Accentuation Effect
"Minimal group" experiment (basic findings)
Ways to activate overarching identities
"Robber's Cave" experiment (basic findings)
Kitty Genovese 
Good Samaritan experiment
Bystander effect
Identifiable victim effect
Altruism vs. egoism  
Kinship selection 
Status
Effects of status ("What does status do?")
Bases of status differentiation
Various properties of status hierarchies 
"Motherhood Wage Penalty"
Stereotypes
Factual problems with stereotypes
Police Officer's Dilemma
Negotiation 
Distributive negotiation
Integrative negotiation 
Zone Of Potential Agreement 
Naive realism 
Defining success in negotiation 
Norm of reciprocity 
Effect of social status on health 
Subjective socioeconomic status 
Effect of social support on health 
Effect of social influence on health beliefs 
Effect of social influence on health behaviors
Mass psychogenic illness 
Attitudinal and affective political polarization
Personality predictors of political ideology
Causes of expanding polarization
Moral reframing hypothesis
Triangular theory of love 
Cultural and gender differences in love 
The "big three" forces in attraction 
Mere exposure effect
Pratfall effect
Gain-loss effect 
Misattribution of arousal 
Rickety bridge study (basic findings)
Positive Psychology
Various things that do/do not make people happy
Relationship between income and happiness
Imposter Phenomenon
Flow
Immune Neglect
Research on Pennebaker introspective essay exercise
Sources/Causes of Meaning
Illusion of transparency
Spotlight effect
Actions vs. Inactions

Readings:
All the readings and films from Weeks 5-10:
The Happiness Hypothesis, Introduction and Chapters 1-11
Stets and Burke. "Identity Theory and Social Identity Theory." 
Hastorf and Cantril, "They Saw a Game"
Correll et al. "Getting a Job: Is there a Motherhood Penalty?" 
Pager. "Blacks and Ex-Cons Need Not Apply." 
Holms, "The Kindness Paradox:  Why Be Generous
Sinclair and Kunda, "Motivated Stereotyping of Women." 
Magee and Galinsky, "Social Hierarchy" 
Galinsky,"View From the Other Side of the Table." 
Massey "Abraham Lincoln and the Tools of Influence." 
George, "The Journey to Authenticity." 
Crum and Phillips, "Self-Fulfilling Prophesies, Placebo Effects, and the Social-Psychological Creation of Reality" 
Crum, Leibowitz, and Verghese, "Making Mindset Matter" 
Graham et al., "Liberals and Conservatives Rely on Different Sets of Moral Foundations" 
Kahneman and Deaton. "High Income Improves Evaluation of Life but not Emotional Well-Being." 

Short Answer Terms:
Levels of identity
Causes and consequences of group identification
Ways to activate overarching identities
Identifiable victim effect
Bystander effect 
Status
Effects of status ("What does status do?")
Stereotypes
Naive realism 
Integrative negotiation
Mass psychogenic illness 
Moral reframing hypothesis
Triangular theory of love 
Pratfall effect
Misattribution of arousal
Various things that do/do not make you happy
Imposter Phenomenon
Immune Neglect
Illusion of transparency 
The Spotlight Effect

Prompts for Long Answer (on the test you will pick 1 of 2):
1. Explain the basic principles of social identity theory: give three causes of group identification, and three consequences. What can create an overarching (or superordinate) identity? Give an example that illustrates a cause of identification, a consequence of identification, and an overarching identity.
2. Explain how the Robber's Cave Experiment worked. Be sure to explain the 3 stages of the study and what happened during them. Give examples of overarching (i.e. superordinate) goals and how they affected the study participants. Give 2 conclusions about group interaction that can be drawn from this study. Explain how the results of the Robber's Cave Experiment are similar to the results of at least one other study cited in the Social Identity Theory lecture. 
3. List the five steps of helping.  For each step describe a barrier that might get in the way of engaging in helping and how one might overcome that barrier and therefore be more likely to engage in helping.  In your essay detail at least one social psychological experiment and explain what information that study reveals about helping behavior. 
4. Imagine you just received an offer from your dream organization. The offer includes a discussion of your salary as well as location, vacation days, and health insurance. Given what you learned in the negotiation lecture and in the Harvard Business Review reading on negotiation how would you go about negotiating effectively? For full credit describe 4 principles discussed in the lecture and reading that you could take into account to negotiate effectively.   
5. Many people overlook the importance of social factors in shaping our health.  Imagine you are at a dinner party trying to convince a skeptic that these forces matter: list three ways that social factors influence health.  For each way, describe one social psychological study or experiment that supports the claim. 